# Lookup paths for data and parameter files

This includes all the paths that relate to a deployment, site, year, or
the entire data base.

## Usage

``` r
lookup_paths(
  base_dir = NULL,
  year = NULL,
  site = NULL,
  deployment_date = NULL,
  deployment_dir = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- base_dir:

  The base directory for all the data.

- year:

  The four digit year for which paths are to be looked up

- site:

  The site name for which the paths are to be looked up

- deployment_date:

  The deployment date in the form `yyyy-mm-dd`, where `yyyy` is a four
  digit year, `mm` is a two digit month and `dd` is a two digit day.
  Single digit components should be padded e.g. `01` for January.

- deployment_dir:

  (optional) The full path to a deployment's directory. If
  `deployment_dir` is used, all other arguments are ignored and instead
  their values are inferred from this path.

## Value

A list of paths and a few related non-path variables. The items returned
are all always the same and in the same order but with some inputs the
deployment specific items will not be defined so will have `NA` values.
All list items contain a single string.

- base_dir:

  The path to the base directory for the data.

- year_dir:

  The path to a specific year's directory

- site_dir:

  The path to a specific site's directory

- md_dir:

  The path to a metadata / parameter directory. Containing additional
  information about sites and placements for the given year

- deployment_dir:

  The path to the deployment directory where all the data (raw,
  calibrated, and QC'd) for a deployment is stored. A deployment is the
  period a device is continuously in the water preceding data download
  from the device, typically about a week for this project.

- deployment_cal_dir:

  The deployment calibration directory path

- deployment_auto_qc:

  The deployment Auto QC file path this file is created by
  [`qc_deployment()`](https://umasscds.github.io/BuzzardsBay/reference/qc_deployment.md)
  as a permanent record of the output of the automated QC process. It
  should not be modified.

- deployment_prelim_qc:

  This is the preliminary QC file. It is created by
  [`qc_deployment()`](https://umasscds.github.io/BuzzardsBay/reference/qc_deployment.md)
  and is intended to be edited by people during the AC process who will,
  at completion of that process delete the `"preliminary_"` from the
  beginning of the name.

- deployment_final_qc:

  This is the final QC file created from `deployment_prelim_qc` by
  people performing the QC.

- deployment_metadata:

  This file contains metadata from the HOBOware Details files and
  generated by
  [`qc_deployment()`](https://umasscds.github.io/BuzzardsBay/reference/qc_deployment.md).

- deployment_report:

  An html report with plots to inform the QC process.

- preceding_auto_qc:

  The path to the auto QC file for the preceding deployment if it
  exists, NA otherwise.

- sites:

  CSV file with sites and associated information. The sites file is
  maintained by the users.

- placements:

  CSV tracking placements. The placement is the period a specific device
  is at a site. The placements file is maintained by the users.

- import_types:

  File connecting device models (in placements file) to the import type,
  an integer, used to import the calibrated data derived from those
  device models each import type must be supported with a function named
  `import_calibrated_data_{type}`. where type the integer. See for
  example `import_calibrated_data_1` which handles the CSV output from
  HOBOware. The public function
  [`import_calibrated_data()`](https://umasscds.github.io/BuzzardsBay/reference/import_calibrated_data.md)
  handles dispatch to the numbered functions and does some additional
  formatting and checking of the output.

- global_parameters:

  This YAML (`.yml`) file sets global parameters for the BuzzardsBay
  package, most of which affect how flags are calculated. See
  `update_bb_parameters`

- site_parameters:

  This YAML takes precedence over `global_parameters` and allows
  adjusting them to a particular site

- year:

  NOT a path This is the four digit year in character format

- deployment_date:

  NOT a path. This is the deployment date as a character in `yyyy-mm-dd`
  format. Numbers are padded e.g. `01` for January.

- site:

  NOT a path. This is the site name. It is case sensitive and should
  appear exactly as it does in the sites table (`sites`).

## Details

The easiest way to call it is to specify the deployment directory
(`deployment_dir`) in which case all other arguments are inferred from
the path. Otherwise specify at a minimum `base_dir`, `year`, and `site`;
and, optionally `deployment_date` and all paths that can be specified
will be.
