# Locations of NOAA tide stations within Buzzards Bay

Locations of NOAA tide stations within Buzzards Bay

## Usage

``` r
tide_station_info
```

## Format

### `tide_station_info`

A data frame with 13 rows and 5 columns:

- name:

  Station name. This can be used with
  [`rtide::tide_height()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/rtide/man/tide_height.html)

- id:

  Station ID

- lat,lon:

  Station latitude and longitude

- predictions:

  The type of model used to make predictions. One of `"Harmonic"` or
  \`"Subordinate".

  Descriptions from
  [NOAA](https://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/PageHelp.html):

  **Harmonic stations** are stations with tidal harmonic constants and
  tidal datums. Tide predictions for harmonic stations are generated
  directly from the harmonic constants. Harmonic stations have the
  greatest capabilities within the NOAA Tide Predictions service for
  providing predictions with different data intervals and relative to
  different tidal datums. These capabilities are controlled within the
  interface.

  **Subordinate stations** are historic stations which do not have tidal
  harmonic constants available. Tide predictions for subordinate
  stations are generated by first generating high/low tide predictions
  for a designated harmonic station, called the "reference station";
  then time and height adjustments are applied to correct the high/low
  predictions to the tidal conditions at the subordinate station.
  Subordinate stations only allow for the generation of high/low tide
  predictions, and heights will be relative to Mean Lower Low Water
  (MLLW), the standard chart datum for the U.S. coastline.

- used:

  Indicates whether the station is in `sites.csv`

- rtide_name:

  The name for the station as used by **rtide** package

## Source

\<"https://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/tide_predictions.html?gid=1403"\>
